[TINKLING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Why is there
light and darkness?
I am your host,
Matias de Stefano.
In this episode, we
are going to learn
why the contrast is
important in our lives
and how both the
positive and the negative
can be a good thing.
We have filled our realities
as a cultural beings
in this planet towards
the path of light.
This path seems that we have
to go away from the darkness.
But at the very beginning
of the creation,
the light and the darkness
are just the same thing.
They were born like two
faces of just one reality,
to push that reality
towards the creation.
So light and darkness
are not different things.
They are not different paths.
They are just the
two ways that creates
the positive and
the negative, that
generates the energy
necessary to create everything
that we know.
So we need light and darkness
all the time and the moment
where we saw the light and
darkness as we know today.
It was not until
the sixth dimension.
When everything begins
in the first dimension,
the realities start
to split in two.
This second
dimension, it would be
the positive and the negative.
After that, the
third dimension will
help us to figure
out what are we
going to experience from
that negative and positive.
The fourth dimension will
give us the context of time
so we could experience and focus
in every timeline and space
line.
The fifth dimension will help
us to recognize the purpose
on all that experience.
And the sixth dimension
will create the two paths
in which the reality must
be taken to understand
the creation of everything.
So the sixth dimension was
born from the third dimension.
And the third dimension was
born from the sixth dimension.
As I said, dimensions
are not something lineal.
Dimensions are something that
has expanded in the universe.
And each one of them is
just breathing from within,
creating each other in the
interaction in between of them.
So there is no first dimension
that was the first one,
and the second, the second one.
This is just a way
we can understand it.
But the sixth dimension.
It was the one that started to
create every pattern that we
know as material things,
but in a different way
as we see the matter.
Matter is the structure
that you cannot change,
that it changed itself.
And it's conditioned
by space, and it's
conditioned by the time
or fourth dimension.
But in the sixth dimension, you
are not conditioned by time,
you're not conditioned by space.
So sixth dimension
will be the perspective
of the universe where you can
create your own realities,
where you can build every
reality you could possibly
imagine.
The sixth dimension we
call is the dimension
where the architects
of the universe exist.
The alchemists, the
people that knows
how to transform matter, that
knows how to reveal universes,
that knows how to be
free from time and space
and use it as tools.
When you have come from the
first dimension split in two
in the positive and negative,
creating the third dimension
to experience, the
fourth dimension
to live the process
of that reality,
and then the fifth
dimension to understand
the process that was created.
The sixth dimension
will be the one
that helps you to transform that
reality you are acknowledging.
When you have the fourth
dimension as a basement,
like a square, and then you have
the fifth dimension on the top,
the six dimension and
the fifth dimension
creates through the
fourth dimension
the shape of an octahedron.
This octahedron start to spin--
one to the right,
one to the left--
creating the spiral
where the whole being
starts to be created.
So the beings in
the sixth dimension
are the ones that
have this possibility
to create realities.
That's why the
sixth dimension is
the one that was split into the
light ones and the dark ones.
The dark ones where
the architects.
The dark ones are the ones that
take the lights, the energies,
and make a mix of
them and create
shapes, structures that the
spirits can experience, feel,
touch.
So in the sixth dimension,
we have the builders
of the universe, the realities.
That's why we call the
darkness to that because they
took the energy of the light and
start to split it in many times
like in many forms, in many
shapes, like a fractal,
to create a reflection
of the light
and make it so
different from what it
was that it creates confusion.
Confusion is the
distortion of light.
It's a distortion
of the purpose.
So why do we have distortion?
Why do we need distortion
in the universe?
Because when you are
light, and your goal
is to know what are you
capable of with your light,
you will need darkness
to see that light.
Because otherwise, you
cannot see anything.
If everything is light, you
cannot figure out how to write
by yourself.
So what darkness does is to
create matter structures that
helps you to find your own
light through the mirrors
and reflections of the universe.
So at first time, it was
not something opposite.
It was something complimentary.
Light and darkness
were the ones--
the light ones who
creates the purpose
and create the path towards
the recognizement of yourself,
the awareness.
And the dark ones were the
ones that took that information
and started to create the
distortion so that beings can
have a path of recognizement.
The dark ones were
the first ones
on creating matter
realities, our dreams.
I used to call the first
darkness as "ivsseubath."
Ivsseubath was the
place of dreams
where every being that
was certain about himself
has to go through these dreams.
And the dreams start
to confuse the being.
So the being can
be lost and forget.
So there is a purpose of
being confused and being
lost and forget.
The purpose of it is to find
yourself through the path.
We have to remember that
the universe doesn't
have a goal exactly.
It doesn't have the
goal of illumination.
It doesn't look
for enlightenment
and to be in peace.
The universe is
trying to find itself
in different
perspectives, is trying
to understand to
learn about himself.
So while the universe
is expanding itself,
if we have clarity
in the process,
if you can understand
everything,
so there's no purpose in moving.
There's no purpose on find and
see what you are capable of.
So darkness are
the ones that says
this is so easy that we
have to complicate it
a little bit so we
can understand it.
So they created these
structures of reality
in the sixth dimension.
The architects of
the reality that
are like the people that
build a scenery of play.
They create all
this stuff around
to make it weird and
beautiful or horrible.
Whatever you need to
awake your own potential.
You have chosen these
patterns and matrix
of your reality, which you
will call the personality.
And your personality
are the tools
that your soul needs to
play a role in this play.
So then you become a
character on the play.
But everything you see in
this scenery, everything
you see in the theater, it
will be created by darkness.
So darkness create
the surrounding
so you can have tools
and find yourself
in the mirror of everyone and
everything that is around you.
So at the very
beginning, darkness
is the one that helps
you to find yourself.
And if you think about it,
you have found yourself,
and you have questions
about yourself
not because something beautiful
happened in your life.
For sure, because a crisis
and something horrible
happened in your life.
Maybe an illness,
separations, conflicts, war.
Those are the things that
usually awakes people.
Because in very dark realities
like this one in this planet,
if you cannot see the
truth and the reality,
you will need someone to push
you or something to press
the reality that you are living
in so the real potential you
have within comes out.
So that's why we can relate
darkness with winter.
We kind of emotionally
take the image of winter
like a moment where
everything could
be dark and low in energy.
But it's winter that helps
the plants to keep the energy
to start in spring,
to come out in spring.
It's because of that
amount of energy
that you are working with
while the winter is out.
So that's why we need
that experience of density
to express the potential
we have within.
That's why the sixth dimension
is creating all the time
situations in which the beings,
the light beings that we are
can express ourselves in
different many situations.
Because if we all have
exactly the same reality
and the same situation
all the time,
you are not learning anything.
We need conflicts.
We need problems.
We need some stuff to solve
emotionally, mentally,
and physically so
we could understand
what are we capable of.
That's why we need to understand
the importance between light
and darkness.
Light is the path to understand.
But it's not the path
to transcendence.
Enlightenment is just a way
in which you can feel reality.
But it's not the
goal of reality.
And darkness is not a
goal, is not a purpose.
It's not a place
where people could go
if they are doing bad things.
Darkness is the
tool that we have
to create these sceneries
in which we can experience
new realities of light.
In planets like ours that
we have only one son,
we have 12 hours of
day, 12 hours of night.
The whole beings,
biologically, they
were prepared to follow the
light and escape the darkness.
We now as cultural beings,
we talk about spirituality
as a way to light.
And there are angels,
archangels, and seraphims,
and all these kind of
beings in the light
where we have to go
to like God or whoever
you prefer to believe in.
So we are heading to
the light because we
say the darkness is
bad, and light is good.
But this is not
something spiritual.
This is something biological.
This is not something that some
being from another dimension
told us, follow the light.
It was the first cell,
the first bacteria
in this planet that told us
follow the light because we
needed to feed ourselves.
And the only way we
can feed ourselves
was with light, with
the light of sun,
going from the very
bottom of the oceans
where the darkness is.
And we had to go
up to see the light
and to eat the light
by photosynthesis.
So the process of
photosynthesis is enlightenment.
The first cell did this
transformation from itself
through the light of the sun.
So when we transform ourselves
through the light of the sun,
we recognize that the
light was the path that
transforms ourselves
and that gives us food.
So our main food as spiritual
beings, follow the light.
But the light is nothing
else but the sun.
There is no light but the inner
light in the other dimensions.
So we are not
following the light.
We have the light within.
When you are trying to
follow the path of light,
you are just
following the pattern
that a cell billions of years
ago said to you is not real.
It's just a way to not to
be lost in this planet.
So when you go to
a planet like I
did once thousands of
years ago with two or three
stars where the night
is maybe just two hours,
we had no problems like that.
We had no separations
between light and darkness.
We have no idea about what evil
was because our cells were not
built through
light and darkness.
So that's why we
need to understand
that the concept of duality
has a bad and a good thing.
It's something that happened in
our body biologically talking.
It's not something that
happened in another dimension.
When we go to
other dimension, we
will see that the darkness,
the demons, and the angels
are working together.
And we can kind
of be like, what?
What are they doing?
Why do they work together?
Because angels are
trying to tell us
this is the path it
would be good for you
to understand who you are.
But we are so focused
in the third dimension
that the angels are like,
they don't listen to us.
I try to be soft.
I try to caress them.
I try to whisper to the ear,
hey, you have to do this.
And you are so focused on
something else and something
so material that the angel have
to go to the demon and says,
look.
You know how to
handle the matter.
So I need he to understand
that this is not his path,
that he must do other thing.
And the demon will say,
OK, I will put a truck just
in front of him.
So he crashed and has
a crisis, an accident.
And his life changed.
So we had no time, so that's
why he needed to be like that.
So the angel then
comes and says,
you see that you needed to go
to another way because this way,
there was a truck
coming from in front?
So the constructors of
reality, what they do
is try to show us in a
difficult and material way
how do we have to
evolve in this planet?
How do we have to
move in this planet?
So that's why we
need the darkness
because they are showing us the
ways in which we could evolve.
But also, we as
humans, sometimes we
lose the consciousness,
and sometimes
we forget we forget who we are.
They also have that.
In the sixth
dimension, there are
a lot of people that working
on this fractality reality
and this distortion of reality.
They also distortion themselves,
so they forgot who they are.
So they forgot that the
purpose of distortion
was to teach others
how to look themselves,
and they took
distortion as a goal.
So that's why we recognize
the darkness as something
evil, something bad.
But I would bet that
those people are just
the 10% of the whole people
in darkness working for us.
There's a lot of people in
other dimensions-- a lot
of beings in other dimensions
from the darkness working
towards our enlightenment.
And after we get
enlightenment, we
recognize that there
was no light at real,
that it was something
biological, that it
was something built by
the architects of reality.
In the past, in the
first civilizations,
we used to call God like the
Great Architect of Reality.
The Architect because he knew
that the patterns of numbers
and geometry are the base
to create everything.
But this being was light
and dark at the same time.
So one of the things that
we as a third dimension
have to understand
is that the only way
that we have to be in balance
in between light and darkness
is if we become
gray, gray beings.
But we also have
these gray beings
that we call bad people,
bad ones in other planets.
But this is not the
gray I'm talking about.
I'm talking about the
mix of light and dark.
We are creators.
And the only one
you can create is
if you have the
patterns of darkness
and the magics of light.
If you have both together,
if you mix both together,
you will understand that
the creation of the universe
is just alchemists.
It's just alchemy that you
are using from the darkness,
that the tools to create
come from the darkness.
And when you honor
them and you realize
that they are part
of you, you will
be free from their distortion.
So you start to be
free, and you make
them free from their role
to create a lot of ideas
and sceneries for you.
So you start to live in a
flow because you honor light
and darkness at the same time.
So the best way to understand
the darkness and light
within us is to understand
that the sixth dimension has
created the vehicle that we call
"merkaba" to create realities.
The merkaba is the system
of the sixth dimension that
helps souls to split
in many other beings
that we call the
vehicle of light.
But the vehicle of light
was built by darkness.
So it was not just light.
It has both.
That's why the vehicle of light
has a negative and a positive
and split the body in two.
The ones that root ourselves
to the ground, to the darkness,
and the ones that
go up to the light.
And the only way you can create
a new reality and to aware
about who you are is
by going to the center.
Not up, not below.
Just the core of everything
in the middle, in the center.
That's why the only way you can
transcend light and darkness
as the biological
concept that we have is
if you honor your roots and
honor your branches and leaves
is the only way you can go
to the core, to the center,
and create your own
and new reality.
Evolving this planet
made us believe
that there are always a bad
way and a good way to do stuff.
The world is spinning
all the time.
So some places is night,
but it always changes.
Not always it's night
in the same place.
So what teaches this
is that everything
is changing constantly.
And sometimes we
are the evil ones,
and sometimes we
are the good ones.
This is not something that
you are born with evil
and born with good.
This is something that was used
by religion to split people
and to create politics.
It's not something real.
It's something that we use to
have order in our societies,
to survive.
In the sixth dimension, you
can see demons and angels
working together.
In this reality of
third dimension,
we are born together.
We are those demons and
angels looking for neutrality.
The third dimension
is the experience.
So the experimental part of the
universe, we demons and angels
are working as one within.
Demons and angels are
not fighting like we
do in this planet Earth.
We split their work like
if they were enemies.
But in the sixth dimension
where they were built
or they were created,
they are not enemies.
They are partners.
Partners in the path of light
and the path of darkness.
And as I remember, when I
was just Ghan, my spirit,
I used to work in the
libraries of the universe.
When a demon or an
angel or whoever
came to me to ask
for information,
I would give the
information exactly the same
to both of them because they
are a part of the reality.
So in the neutral
part of the universe,
we don't see the duality.
We don't see this fight
against dark and light.
This is, as I said,
something biological.
That's why in order
to escape or transcend
this reality of
dark and light, you
have to first recognize
that you are both of them,
that every human, ever being in
the universe is built by both
of them, that no one
of them is our goal,
that you don't have
to go by darkness.
But you neither
have to go by light.
They are just two tools
that we have to understand
who we are in the middle.
They are just two
ways to understand
the paths, the creation.
But they are not purpose.
They are no goals.
They are just tools.
That's why when you
realize that, you
will see all the realities, all
the creations with forgiveness,
with understanding,
and realizing
that you have created
everything, that you
are darkness and light.
There is no dark and
light outside of you.
You are both of them.
Thank you for joining
me on this journey.
I am your host and
guide, Matias de Stefano,
for this series on the
creation of the universe.
Stay tuned for the
next episode where
we will dive into the
seven laws of the universe.
[MUSIC PLAYING]